site/rebase-image.md, before:

# Rebase Image

The `rebase` command creates a new Docker image and copies an existing WebLogic Domain to that new image.  
The new Docker image can be based on an existing image in the repository or created as part of the rebase operation 
similar to the `create` command.

```
Usage: imagetool rebase [OPTIONS]
```

| Parameter | Definition | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
|`--additionalBuildCommands`| Path to a file with additional build commands. For more details, see [Additional information](#additional-information). |
|`--chown` | `userid:groupid` for JDK/Middleware installs and patches.  | `oracle:oracle` |
| `--docker` | Path to the Docker executable.  |  `docker` |
| `--dryRun` | Skip Docker build execution and print the Dockerfile to stdout.  |  |
| `--fromImage` | Docker image to use as a base image when creating a new image. | `oraclelinux:7-slim`  |
| `--httpProxyUrl` | Proxy for the HTTP protocol. Example: `http://myproxy:80` or `http:user:passwd@myproxy:8080`  |   |
| `--httpsProxyUrl` | Proxy for the HTTPS protocol. Example: `https://myproxy:80` or `https:user:passwd@myproxy:8080`  |   |
| `--installerResponseFile` | Path to a response file. Overrides the default responses for the Oracle installer.  |   |
| `--jdkVersion` | Version of the server JDK to install.  | `8u202`  |
| `--latestPSU` | Whether to apply patches from the latest PSU.  |   |
| `--opatchBugNumber` | The patch number for OPatch (patching OPatch).  |   |
| `--password` | Password for the support `userId`. See `--user` |   |
| `--passwordEnv` | Environment variable containing the support password. See `--user` |   |
| `--passwordFile` | Path to a file containing just the password. See `--user`  |   |
| `--patches` | Comma separated list of patch IDs. Example: `12345678,87654321`  |   |
| `--sourceImage` | (Required) Source Image containing the WebLogic domain. |   |
| `--tag` | (Required) Tag for the final build image. Example: `store/oracle/weblogic:12.2.1.3.0`  |   |
| `--targetImage` | Docker image to extend for the domain's new image. |   |
| `--type` | Installer type. Supported values: `WLS`, `FMW`  | `WLS`  |
| `--user` | Your Oracle support email ID.  |   |
| `--version` | Installer version. | `12.2.1.3.0`  |

## Additional information

#### `--additionalBuildCommands`

This is an advanced option that let's you provide additional commands to the Docker build step.  
The input for this parameter is a simple text file that contains one or more of the valid sections: `before-jdk-install`, `after-jdk-install`, `before-fmw-install`, `after-fmw-install`, `before-wdt-command`, `after-wdt-command`, `final-build-commands`.

Each section can contain one or more valid Dockerfile commands and would look like the following:

```dockerfile
[after-fmw-install]
RUN rm /some/dir/unnecessary-file

[final-build-commands]
LABEL owner="middleware team"
```

#### Use an argument file

You can save all arguments passed for the Image Tool in a file, then use the file as a parameter.

For example, create a file called `build_args`:

```bash
rebase
--tag wls:122140
--sourceImage wls:122130
--version 12.2.1.4.0
--jdkVersion 8u221
```

Use it on the command line, as follows:

```bash
imagetool @/path/to/build_args
```


## Usage scenarios

**Note**: Use `--passwordEnv` or `--passwordFile` instead of `--password`.

The commands below assume that all the required JDK, WLS, or FMW (WebLogic infrastructure installers) have been downloaded
 to the cache directory. Use the [cache](cache.md) command to set it up.


- Update the JDK for an existing domain.  Copy the existing domain from `sample:v1` where the JDK was 8u202 to a new 
image called `sample:v2` and install the newer JDK 8u221 with WebLogic Server 12.2.1.3.0.
    ```
    imagetool rebase --tag sample:v2 --sourceImage sample:v1 --version 12.2.1.3.0 --jdkVersion 8u221 
    ```

- Update the Oracle Home for an existing domain with a newer WebLogic version.  Copy a domain from an existing image to 
a new image with a new install of WebLogic Server 12.2.1.4.0.  Copy the domain 
from `sample:v1` and select the desired WebLogic installer using the `--version` argument.  
    ```
    imagetool rebase --tag sample:v2 --sourceImage sample:v1 --version 12.2.1.4.0 --jdkVersion 8u221 
    ```

- Update the JDK and/or Oracle Home for an existing domain using another image with pre-installed binaries. 
Copy the domain from the source image named `sample:v1` to a new image called `sample:v2` based on a target image 
named `fmw:12214`.  **Note**: The Oracle Home and JDK must be installed in the same same folders on each image.
    ```
    imagetool rebase --tag sample:v2 --sourceImage sample:v1 --targetImage fmw:12214
    ```


## Copyright
Copyright (c) 2019 Oracle and/or its affiliates.  All rights reserved.

Commit message:

allow Oracle Support password to be provided on STDIN

site/rebase-image.md, after:

# Rebase Image

The `rebase` command creates a new Docker image and copies an existing WebLogic Domain to that new image.  
The new Docker image can be based on an existing image in the repository or created as part of the rebase operation 
similar to the `create` command.

```
Usage: imagetool rebase [OPTIONS]
```

| Parameter | Definition | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
|`--additionalBuildCommands`| Path to a file with additional build commands. For more details, see [Additional information](#additional-information). |
|`--chown` | `userid:groupid` for JDK/Middleware installs and patches.  | `oracle:oracle` |
| `--docker` | Path to the Docker executable.  |  `docker` |
| `--dryRun` | Skip Docker build execution and print the Dockerfile to stdout.  |  |
| `--fromImage` | Docker image to use as a base image when creating a new image. | `oraclelinux:7-slim`  |
| `--httpProxyUrl` | Proxy for the HTTP protocol. Example: `http://myproxy:80` or `http:user:passwd@myproxy:8080`  |   |
| `--httpsProxyUrl` | Proxy for the HTTPS protocol. Example: `https://myproxy:80` or `https:user:passwd@myproxy:8080`  |   |
| `--installerResponseFile` | Path to a response file. Overrides the default responses for the Oracle installer.  |   |
| `--jdkVersion` | Version of the server JDK to install.  | `8u202`  |
| `--latestPSU` | Whether to apply patches from the latest PSU.  |   |
| `--opatchBugNumber` | The patch number for OPatch (patching OPatch).  |   |
| `--password` | Request password for the Oracle Support `--user` on STDIN, see `--user`.  |   |
| `--passwordEnv` | Environment variable containing the Oracle Support password, see `--user`.  |   |
| `--passwordFile` | Path to a file containing just the Oracle Support password, see `--user`.  |   |
| `--patches` | Comma separated list of patch IDs. Example: `12345678,87654321`  |   |
| `--sourceImage` | (Required) Source Image containing the WebLogic domain. |   |
| `--tag` | (Required) Tag for the final build image. Example: `store/oracle/weblogic:12.2.1.3.0`  |   |
| `--targetImage` | Docker image to extend for the domain's new image. |   |
| `--type` | Installer type. Supported values: `WLS`, `FMW`  | `WLS`  |
| `--user` | Your Oracle support email ID.  |   |
| `--version` | Installer version. | `12.2.1.3.0`  |

## Additional information

#### `--additionalBuildCommands`

This is an advanced option that let's you provide additional commands to the Docker build step.  
The input for this parameter is a simple text file that contains one or more of the valid sections: `before-jdk-install`, `after-jdk-install`, `before-fmw-install`, `after-fmw-install`, `before-wdt-command`, `after-wdt-command`, `final-build-commands`.

Each section can contain one or more valid Dockerfile commands and would look like the following:

```dockerfile
[after-fmw-install]
RUN rm /some/dir/unnecessary-file

[final-build-commands]
LABEL owner="middleware team"
```

#### Use an argument file

You can save all arguments passed for the Image Tool in a file, then use the file as a parameter.

For example, create a file called `build_args`:

```bash
rebase
--tag wls:122140
--sourceImage wls:122130
--version 12.2.1.4.0
--jdkVersion 8u221
```

Use it on the command line, as follows:

```bash
imagetool @/path/to/build_args
```


## Usage scenarios

**Note**: Use `--passwordEnv` or `--passwordFile` instead of `--password`.

The commands below assume that all the required JDK, WLS, or FMW (WebLogic infrastructure installers) have been downloaded
 to the cache directory. Use the [cache](cache.md) command to set it up.


- Update the JDK for an existing domain.  Copy the existing domain from `sample:v1` where the JDK was 8u202 to a new 
image called `sample:v2` and install the newer JDK 8u221 with WebLogic Server 12.2.1.3.0.
    ```
    imagetool rebase --tag sample:v2 --sourceImage sample:v1 --version 12.2.1.3.0 --jdkVersion 8u221 
    ```

- Update the Oracle Home for an existing domain with a newer WebLogic version.  Copy a domain from an existing image to 
a new image with a new install of WebLogic Server 12.2.1.4.0.  Copy the domain 
from `sample:v1` and select the desired WebLogic installer using the `--version` argument.  
    ```
    imagetool rebase --tag sample:v2 --sourceImage sample:v1 --version 12.2.1.4.0 --jdkVersion 8u221 
    ```

- Update the JDK and/or Oracle Home for an existing domain using another image with pre-installed binaries. 
Copy the domain from the source image named `sample:v1` to a new image called `sample:v2` based on a target image 
named `fmw:12214`.  **Note**: The Oracle Home and JDK must be installed in the same same folders on each image.
    ```
    imagetool rebase --tag sample:v2 --sourceImage sample:v1 --targetImage fmw:12214
    ```


## Copyright
Copyright (c) 2019 Oracle and/or its affiliates.  All rights reserved.
