documentation/site/content/userguide/tools/rebase-image.md, before:

---
title: "Rebase Image"
date: 2024-04-11
draft: false
weight: 3
description: "The rebase command creates a new container image using an existing WebLogic domain from an existing image."
---


The `rebase` command creates a new container image and copies an existing WebLogic domain to that new image.  
The new container image can be based on an existing image in the repository or created as part of the rebase operation
similar to the `create` command.

```
Usage: imagetool rebase [OPTIONS]
```

| Parameter | Definition | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--sourceImage` | (Required) Source Image containing the WebLogic domain. |   |
| `--tag` | (Required) Tag for the final build image. Example: `store/oracle/weblogic:14.1.2.0.0`  |   |
| `--additionalBuildCommands` | Path to a file with additional build commands. For more details, see [Additional information](#--additionalbuildcommands). |
| `--additionalBuildFiles` | Additional files that are required by your `additionalBuildCommands`.  A comma separated list of files that should be copied to the build context. See [Additional information](#--additionalbuildfiles). |
| `--builder`, `-b` | Executable to process the Dockerfile. Use the full path of the executable if not on your path. | Defaults to `docker`, or, when set, to the value in environment variable `WLSIMG_BUILDER`. |
| `--buildNetwork` | Networking mode for the RUN instructions during the image build.  See `--network` for Docker `build`.  |   |
| `--chown` | `userid:groupid` to be used for creating files within the image, such as the JDK, the FMW/WLS installs, etc.  If the user or group does not exist in the image, they will be added with useradd/groupadd.  | `oracle:oracle` |
| `--dryRun` | Skip Docker build execution and print the Dockerfile to stdout.  |  |
| `--fromImage` | Container image to use as a base image when creating a new image. | `ghcr.io/oracle/oraclelinux:8-slim`  |
| `--httpProxyUrl` | Proxy for the HTTP protocol. Example: `http://myproxy:80` or `http:user:passwd@myproxy:8080`  |   |
| `--httpsProxyUrl` | Proxy for the HTTPS protocol. Example: `https://myproxy:80` or `https:user:passwd@myproxy:8080`  |   |
| `--installerResponseFile` | One or more custom response files. A comma separated list of paths to installer response files. Overrides the default responses for the Oracle silent installer.  |   |
| `--inventoryPointerFile` | Path to custom inventory pointer file.  |   |
| `--inventoryPointerInstallLoc` | Target location for the inventory pointer file.  |   |
| `--jdkVersion` | Version of the server JDK to install.  | `8u202`  |
| `--latestPSU` | Find and apply the latest PatchSet Update.  |   |
| `--opatchBugNumber` | The patch number for OPatch (patching OPatch).  | `28186730`  |
| `--packageManager` | Override the default package manager for the base image's operating system. Supported values: `APK`, `APTGET`, `NONE`, `OS_DEFAULT`, `YUM`, `ZYPPER`  | `OS_DEFAULT`  |
| `--password` | Request password for the Oracle Support `--user` on STDIN, see `--user`.  |   |
| `--passwordEnv` | Environment variable containing the Oracle Support password, see `--user`.  |   |
| `--passwordFile` | Path to a file containing just the Oracle Support password, see `--user`.  |   |
| `--patches` | Comma separated list of patch IDs. Example: `12345678,87654321`  |   |
| `--platform` | Set the target platform to build.  Supported values: `linux/amd64` or `linux/arm64`. |   |
| `--pull` | Always attempt to pull a newer version of base images during the build.  |   |
| `--recommendedPatches` | Find and apply the latest PatchSet Update and recommended patches. This takes precedence over `--latestPSU`. |   |
| `--skipcleanup` | Do not delete the build context folder, intermediate images, and failed build containers. For debugging purposes.  |   |
| `--strictPatchOrdering` |  Instruct OPatch to apply patches one at a time (uses `apply` instead of `napply`). |   |
| `--target` | Select the target environment in which the created image will be used. Supported values: `Default` (Docker/Kubernetes), `OpenShift`. See [Additional information](#--target). | `Default`  |
| `--targetImage` | Container image to extend for the domain's new image. |   |
| `--type` | Installer type. Supported values: `WLS`, `WLSDEV`, `WLSSLIM`, `FMW`, `IDM`, `MFT`, `OAM`, `ODI`, `OHS`, `OIG`, `OUD`, `OUD_WLS`, `OID`, `OSB`, `SOA`, `SOA_OSB`, `SOA_OSB_B2B`, `WCC`, `WCP`, `WCS`  | `WLS`  |
| `--useBuildx` | Use BuildKit for building the container image.  |  |
| `--user` | Your Oracle support email ID. When supplying `user`, you must supply the password either as an environment variable using `--passwordEnv`, or as a file using `--passwordFile`, or interactively, on the command line with `--password`. |   |
| `--version` | Installer version. | `14.1.2.0.0`  |

### Additional information

#### `--additionalBuildCommands`

This is an advanced option that let's you provide additional commands to the Docker build step.  
The input for this parameter is a simple text file that contains one or more of the valid sections. Valid sections for rebase:

| Section | Available Variables | Build Stage | Timing |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `initial-build-commands` | None | All | As root, and before any Image Tool actions. |
| `before-jdk-install` | `JAVA_HOME` `DOMAIN_HOME`| Intermediate (JDK_BUILD) | Before the JDK is installed. |
| `after-jdk-install` | `JAVA_HOME` `DOMAIN_HOME` | Intermediate (JDK_BUILD) | After the JDK is installed. |
| `before-fmw-install` | `JAVA_HOME` `ORACLE_HOME` `DOMAIN_HOME` | Intermediate (WLS_BUILD) | Before the Oracle Home is created. |
| `after-fmw-install` | `JAVA_HOME` `ORACLE_HOME` `DOMAIN_HOME` | Intermediate (WLS_BUILD) | After all of the Oracle middleware installers are finished. |
| `final-build-commands` | `JAVA_HOME` `ORACLE_HOME` `DOMAIN_HOME` | Final image | After all Image Tool actions are complete, and just before the container image is finalized. |

**NOTE**: Changes made in intermediate stages may not be carried forward to the final image unless copied manually.  
The Image Tool will copy the Java Home and the Oracle Home directories to the final image.  
Changes fully contained within these directories do not need an additional `COPY` command in the `final-build-commands` section.
Each section can contain one or more valid Dockerfile commands and would look like the following:

```dockerfile
[after-fmw-install]
RUN rm /some/dir/unnecessary-file
COPY --chown=oracle:oracle files/my_additional_file.txt /u01

[final-build-commands]
LABEL owner="middleware team"
```

#### `--additionalBuildFiles`

This option provides a way to supply additional files to the image build command.
All provided files and directories are copied directly under the `files` subfolder of the build context.  
To get those files into the image, additional build commands must be provided using the `additionalBuildCommands` options.
Access to these files using a build command, such as `COPY` or `ADD`, should use the original filename
with the folder prefix, `files/`.  For example, if the
original file was provided as `--additionalBuildFiles /scratch/test1/convenience.sh`, the Docker build command `COPY`
provided in `--additionalBuildCommands` should look like
`COPY --chown=oracle:oracle files/convenience.sh /my/internal/image/location`.  
Because Image Tool uses multi-stage
builds, it is important to place the build command (like `COPY`) in the appropriate section of the `Dockerfile` based
on when the build needs access to the file.  For example, if the file is needed in the final image and not for
installation or domain creation steps, use the `final-build-commands` section so that the `COPY` command occurs in the
final stage of the image build.  Or, if the file needs to change the Oracle Home prior to domain creation, use
the `after-fmw-install` or `before-wdt-command` sections.

#### `--target`

By default, the generated WLS domain in your image will use the best practices defined by Oracle WebLogic Server.  
The `target` option allows you to toggle the defaults so that the generated domain is easier to use in the target
environment.  For example, the `--target OpenShift` option will change the file permissions in the domain directory
so that the group permissions match the user permissions.

| Target | Default File Permissions | Default File Ownership |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `Default` | `rwxr-x---` | `oracle:oracle` |
| `OpenShift` | `rwxrwx---` | `oracle:root` |

#### Use an argument file

You can save all arguments passed for the Image Tool in a file, then use the file as a parameter.

For example, create a file called `build_args`:

```bash
rebase
--tag wls:141200
--sourceImage wls:141100
--version 14.1.2.0.0
--jdkVersion 21.0.6
```

Use it on the command line, as follows:

```bash
$ imagetool @/path/to/build_args
```


### Usage scenarios

**Note**: Use `--passwordEnv` or `--passwordFile` instead of `--password`.

The commands below assume that all the required JDK, WLS, or FMW (WebLogic infrastructure) installers have been downloaded
 to the cache directory. Use the [cache]({{% relref "/userguide/tools/cache.md" %}}) command to set it up.


- Update the JDK for an existing domain.  Copy the existing domain from `sample:v1` where the JDK was 8u401 to a new
image called `sample:v2` and install the newer JDK 21.0.6 with WebLogic Server 14.1.2.0.0.
    ```bash
    $ imagetool rebase --tag sample:v2 --sourceImage sample:v1 --version 14.1.2.0.0 --jdkVersion 21.0.6
    ```

- Update the Oracle Home for an existing domain with a newer WebLogic version.  Copy a domain from an existing image to
a new image with a new install of WebLogic Server 14.1.2.0.0.  Copy the domain
from `sample:v1` and select the desired WebLogic installer using the `--version` argument.  
    ```bash
    $ imagetool rebase --tag sample:v2 --sourceImage sample:v1 --version 14.1.4.0.0 --jdkVersion 21.0.6
    ```

- Update the JDK and/or Oracle Home for an existing domain using another image with pre-installed binaries.
Copy the domain from the source image named `sample:v1` to a new image called `sample:v2` based on a target image
named `fmw:1412`.  **Note**: The Oracle Home and JDK must be installed in the same folders on each image.
    ```bash
    $ imagetool rebase --tag sample:v2 --sourceImage sample:v1 --targetImage fmw:1412
    ```

Commit message:

Added support for new OPatch version supporting Jakarta EE

documentation/site/content/userguide/tools/rebase-image.md, after:

---
title: "Rebase Image"
date: 2024-04-11
draft: false
weight: 3
description: "The rebase command creates a new container image using an existing WebLogic domain from an existing image."
---


The `rebase` command creates a new container image and copies an existing WebLogic domain to that new image.  
The new container image can be based on an existing image in the repository or created as part of the rebase operation
similar to the `create` command.

```
Usage: imagetool rebase [OPTIONS]
```

| Parameter | Definition | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--sourceImage` | (Required) Source Image containing the WebLogic domain. |   |
| `--tag` | (Required) Tag for the final build image. Example: `store/oracle/weblogic:14.1.2.0.0`  |   |
| `--additionalBuildCommands` | Path to a file with additional build commands. For more details, see [Additional information](#--additionalbuildcommands). |
| `--additionalBuildFiles` | Additional files that are required by your `additionalBuildCommands`.  A comma separated list of files that should be copied to the build context. See [Additional information](#--additionalbuildfiles). |
| `--builder`, `-b` | Executable to process the Dockerfile. Use the full path of the executable if not on your path. | Defaults to `docker`, or, when set, to the value in environment variable `WLSIMG_BUILDER`. |
| `--buildNetwork` | Networking mode for the RUN instructions during the image build.  See `--network` for Docker `build`.  |   |
| `--chown` | `userid:groupid` to be used for creating files within the image, such as the JDK, the FMW/WLS installs, etc.  If the user or group does not exist in the image, they will be added with useradd/groupadd.  | `oracle:oracle` |
| `--dryRun` | Skip Docker build execution and print the Dockerfile to stdout.  |  |
| `--fromImage` | Container image to use as a base image when creating a new image. | `ghcr.io/oracle/oraclelinux:8-slim`  |
| `--httpProxyUrl` | Proxy for the HTTP protocol. Example: `http://myproxy:80` or `http:user:passwd@myproxy:8080`  |   |
| `--httpsProxyUrl` | Proxy for the HTTPS protocol. Example: `https://myproxy:80` or `https:user:passwd@myproxy:8080`  |   |
| `--installerResponseFile` | One or more custom response files. A comma separated list of paths to installer response files. Overrides the default responses for the Oracle silent installer.  |   |
| `--inventoryPointerFile` | Path to custom inventory pointer file.  |   |
| `--inventoryPointerInstallLoc` | Target location for the inventory pointer file.  |   |
| `--jdkVersion` | Version of the server JDK to install.  | `8u202`  |
| `--latestPSU` | Find and apply the latest PatchSet Update.  |   |
| `--opatchBugNumber` | The patch number for OPatch (patching OPatch). The default is dependent on the product install being patched, 28186730 for <=14.1.2.0.0 or 38256237 for 15.1.1 and Jakarta based releases | `28186730` or `38256237` |
| `--packageManager` | Override the default package manager for the base image's operating system. Supported values: `APK`, `APTGET`, `NONE`, `OS_DEFAULT`, `YUM`, `ZYPPER`  | `OS_DEFAULT`  |
| `--password` | Request password for the Oracle Support `--user` on STDIN, see `--user`.  |   |
| `--passwordEnv` | Environment variable containing the Oracle Support password, see `--user`.  |   |
| `--passwordFile` | Path to a file containing just the Oracle Support password, see `--user`.  |   |
| `--patches` | Comma separated list of patch IDs. Example: `12345678,87654321`  |   |
| `--platform` | Set the target platform to build.  Supported values: `linux/amd64` or `linux/arm64`. |   |
| `--pull` | Always attempt to pull a newer version of base images during the build.  |   |
| `--recommendedPatches` | Find and apply the latest PatchSet Update and recommended patches. This takes precedence over `--latestPSU`. |   |
| `--skipcleanup` | Do not delete the build context folder, intermediate images, and failed build containers. For debugging purposes.  |   |
| `--strictPatchOrdering` |  Instruct OPatch to apply patches one at a time (uses `apply` instead of `napply`). |   |
| `--target` | Select the target environment in which the created image will be used. Supported values: `Default` (Docker/Kubernetes), `OpenShift`. See [Additional information](#--target). | `Default`  |
| `--targetImage` | Container image to extend for the domain's new image. |   |
| `--type` | Installer type. Supported values: `WLS`, `WLSDEV`, `WLSSLIM`, `FMW`, `IDM`, `MFT`, `OAM`, `ODI`, `OHS`, `OIG`, `OUD`, `OUD_WLS`, `OID`, `OSB`, `SOA`, `SOA_OSB`, `SOA_OSB_B2B`, `WCC`, `WCP`, `WCS`  | `WLS`  |
| `--useBuildx` | Use BuildKit for building the container image.  |  |
| `--user` | Your Oracle support email ID. When supplying `user`, you must supply the password either as an environment variable using `--passwordEnv`, or as a file using `--passwordFile`, or interactively, on the command line with `--password`. |   |
| `--version` | Installer version. | `14.1.2.0.0`  |

### Additional information

#### `--additionalBuildCommands`

This is an advanced option that let's you provide additional commands to the Docker build step.  
The input for this parameter is a simple text file that contains one or more of the valid sections. Valid sections for rebase:

| Section | Available Variables | Build Stage | Timing |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `initial-build-commands` | None | All | As root, and before any Image Tool actions. |
| `before-jdk-install` | `JAVA_HOME` `DOMAIN_HOME`| Intermediate (JDK_BUILD) | Before the JDK is installed. |
| `after-jdk-install` | `JAVA_HOME` `DOMAIN_HOME` | Intermediate (JDK_BUILD) | After the JDK is installed. |
| `before-fmw-install` | `JAVA_HOME` `ORACLE_HOME` `DOMAIN_HOME` | Intermediate (WLS_BUILD) | Before the Oracle Home is created. |
| `after-fmw-install` | `JAVA_HOME` `ORACLE_HOME` `DOMAIN_HOME` | Intermediate (WLS_BUILD) | After all of the Oracle middleware installers are finished. |
| `final-build-commands` | `JAVA_HOME` `ORACLE_HOME` `DOMAIN_HOME` | Final image | After all Image Tool actions are complete, and just before the container image is finalized. |

**NOTE**: Changes made in intermediate stages may not be carried forward to the final image unless copied manually.  
The Image Tool will copy the Java Home and the Oracle Home directories to the final image.  
Changes fully contained within these directories do not need an additional `COPY` command in the `final-build-commands` section.
Each section can contain one or more valid Dockerfile commands and would look like the following:

```dockerfile
[after-fmw-install]
RUN rm /some/dir/unnecessary-file
COPY --chown=oracle:oracle files/my_additional_file.txt /u01

[final-build-commands]
LABEL owner="middleware team"
```

#### `--additionalBuildFiles`

This option provides a way to supply additional files to the image build command.
All provided files and directories are copied directly under the `files` subfolder of the build context.  
To get those files into the image, additional build commands must be provided using the `additionalBuildCommands` options.
Access to these files using a build command, such as `COPY` or `ADD`, should use the original filename
with the folder prefix, `files/`.  For example, if the
original file was provided as `--additionalBuildFiles /scratch/test1/convenience.sh`, the Docker build command `COPY`
provided in `--additionalBuildCommands` should look like
`COPY --chown=oracle:oracle files/convenience.sh /my/internal/image/location`.  
Because Image Tool uses multi-stage
builds, it is important to place the build command (like `COPY`) in the appropriate section of the `Dockerfile` based
on when the build needs access to the file.  For example, if the file is needed in the final image and not for
installation or domain creation steps, use the `final-build-commands` section so that the `COPY` command occurs in the
final stage of the image build.  Or, if the file needs to change the Oracle Home prior to domain creation, use
the `after-fmw-install` or `before-wdt-command` sections.

#### `--target`

By default, the generated WLS domain in your image will use the best practices defined by Oracle WebLogic Server.  
The `target` option allows you to toggle the defaults so that the generated domain is easier to use in the target
environment.  For example, the `--target OpenShift` option will change the file permissions in the domain directory
so that the group permissions match the user permissions.

| Target | Default File Permissions | Default File Ownership |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `Default` | `rwxr-x---` | `oracle:oracle` |
| `OpenShift` | `rwxrwx---` | `oracle:root` |

#### Use an argument file

You can save all arguments passed for the Image Tool in a file, then use the file as a parameter.

For example, create a file called `build_args`:

```bash
rebase
--tag wls:141200
--sourceImage wls:141100
--version 14.1.2.0.0
--jdkVersion 21.0.6
```

Use it on the command line, as follows:

```bash
$ imagetool @/path/to/build_args
```


### Usage scenarios

**Note**: Use `--passwordEnv` or `--passwordFile` instead of `--password`.

The commands below assume that all the required JDK, WLS, or FMW (WebLogic infrastructure) installers have been downloaded
 to the cache directory. Use the [cache]({{% relref "/userguide/tools/cache.md" %}}) command to set it up.


- Update the JDK for an existing domain.  Copy the existing domain from `sample:v1` where the JDK was 8u401 to a new
image called `sample:v2` and install the newer JDK 21.0.6 with WebLogic Server 14.1.2.0.0.
    ```bash
    $ imagetool rebase --tag sample:v2 --sourceImage sample:v1 --version 14.1.2.0.0 --jdkVersion 21.0.6
    ```

- Update the Oracle Home for an existing domain with a newer WebLogic version.  Copy a domain from an existing image to
a new image with a new install of WebLogic Server 14.1.2.0.0.  Copy the domain
from `sample:v1` and select the desired WebLogic installer using the `--version` argument.  
    ```bash
    $ imagetool rebase --tag sample:v2 --sourceImage sample:v1 --version 14.1.4.0.0 --jdkVersion 21.0.6
    ```

- Update the JDK and/or Oracle Home for an existing domain using another image with pre-installed binaries.
Copy the domain from the source image named `sample:v1` to a new image called `sample:v2` based on a target image
named `fmw:1412`.  **Note**: The Oracle Home and JDK must be installed in the same folders on each image.
    ```bash
    $ imagetool rebase --tag sample:v2 --sourceImage sample:v1 --targetImage fmw:1412
    ```
